1. The HR department wants a query to display the last name, job code, hire date, and employee number for each employee, with employee number appearing first. Provide an alias STARTDATE for the HIRE_DATE column.

2.The HR department needs a query to display all unique job codes from the EMPLOYEES table.

3.To display the last name, job ID, and start date for   the employees with the last names of Matos and Taylor.    Order the query in ascending order by the start date.

4.Display all employee last names in which the third   letter of the name is “a.”

5.The HR department needs a report that displays the last name and hire date for all employees who were hired in 1994.

6. Display the last name of all employees who have both an a and an e in their last name.

7. The HR department wants to run reports based on a manager. Create a query that prompts the user for a manager ID and generates the employee ID, last name, salary, and department for that manager’s employees. The HR department wants the ability to sort the report on a selected column. You can test the data with the following values:
manager ID = 103, sorted by employee last name
manager ID = 201, sorted by salary
manager ID = 124, sorted by employee ID.


8.Display the last name and department number of all employees in departments 20 or 50 in ascending alphabetical order by name.

9. Write a query to display the system date. Label the column as Date.
	
10.The HR department needs a report to display the employee number, last name, salary, and salary increased by 15.5% (expressed as a whole number) for each employee. Label the column New Salary. Add a column that subtracts the old salary from the new salary. Label the column Increase.

11. Write a query that displays the last name (with the first letter in uppercase and all the other letters in lowercase) and the length of the last name for all employees whose name starts with the letters “J,” “A,” or “M.” Give each column an appropriate label. Sort the results by the employees’ last names.

12.The HR department wants to find the duration of employment for each employee. For each employee, display the last name and calculate the number of months between today and the date on which the employee was hired. Label the column as MONTHS_WORKED. Order your results by the number of months employed. Round the number of months up to the closest whole number.

13. Create a query to display the last name and salary for all employees. Format the salary to be 15 characters long, left-padded with the $ symbol. Label the column as SALARY.

14. Create a query that displays the first eight characters of the employees’ last names and indicates the amounts of their salaries with asterisks. Each asterisk signifies a thousand dollars. Sort the data in descending order of salary. Label the column as EMPLOYEES_AND_THEIR_SALARIES.

15.Create a query to display the last name and the number of weeks employed for all employees in department 90. Label the number of weeks column as TENURE. Truncate the number of weeks value to 0 decimal places. Show the records in descending order of the employee’s tenure.